README.md, before:

# Prismarine-NBT
[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/prismarine-nbt.svg)](http://npmjs.com/package/prismarine-nbt)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/PrismarineJS/prismarine-nbt/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PrismarineJS/prismarine-nbt/actions?query=workflow%3A%22CI%22)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-brightgreen.svg)](https://discord.gg/GsEFRM8)
[![Try it on gitpod](https://img.shields.io/badge/try-on%20gitpod-brightgreen.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/PrismarineJS/prismarine-nbt)

Prismarine-NBT is a JavaScript parser and serializer for [NBT](http://wiki.vg/NBT) archives. It supports big, little, and little-varint encoded NBT files.


## Usage

#### as a async promise

```js
const fs = require('fs')
const nbt = require('prismarine-nbt')

async function main(file) {
  const buffer = fs.readFileSync(file)
  const { parsed, type } = await nbt.parse(buffer)
  console.log('JSON serialized', JSON.stringify(parsed, null, 2))
  fs.createWriteStream('bigtest.nbt').write(nbt.writeUncompressed(parsed, type)) // Write it back 
}
main('bigtest.nbt')
```

#### as a callback

```js
var fs = require('fs'),
    nbt = require('prismarine-nbt');

fs.readFile('bigtest.nbt', function(error, data) {
    if (error) throw error;

    nbt.parse(data, function(error, data) {
        console.log(data.value.stringTest.value);
        console.log(data.value['nested compound test'].value);
    });
});
```

If the data is gzipped, it is automatically decompressed, for the buffer see metadata.buffer

## API

### parse(data, [format]): Promise<{ parsed, type, metadata: { size, buffer? } }>
### parse(data, [format,] callback)

Takes an optionally compressed `data` buffer and reads the nbt data.

If the endian `format` is known, it can be specified as 'big', 'little' or 'littleVarint'. If not specified, the library will
try to sequentially load as big, little and little varint until the parse is successful. The deduced type is returned as `type`.

Minecraft Java Edition uses big-endian format, and Bedrock uses little-endian.

### writeUncompressed(value, format='big')

Returns a buffer with a serialized nbt `value`. 

### parseUncompressed(data, format='big')

Takes a buffer `data` and returns a parsed nbt value.


### simplify(nbt)

Returns a simplified nbt representation : keep only the value to remove one level.
This loses the types so you cannot use the resulting representation to write it back to nbt.

### equal(nbt1, nbt2)

Checks whether two NBT objects are equal, returns a boolean.

### protos : { big, little, littleVarint }

Provides compiled protodef instances used to parse and serialize nbt

### proto

Provide the big-endian protodef instance used to parse and serialize nbt.

### protoLE

Provide the little-endian protodef instance used to parse and serialize little endian nbt.

### addTypesToCompiler (type, compiler)
Adds prismarine-nbt types to an ProtoDef compiler instance

### addTypesToInterpreter (type, interperter)
Adds prismarine-nbt types to a ProtoDef interpreter instance

### builder

Provides a way to build complex nbt structures simply:

```js
const nbt = require('prismarine-nbt')
const tag = nbt.comp({
  Air: nbt.short(300),
  Armor: nbt.list(nbt.comp([
    { Count: nbt.byte(0), Damage: nbt.short(0), Name: nbt.string('a') },
    { Count: nbt.byte(0), Damage: nbt.short(0), Name: nbt.string('b') },
    { Count: nbt.byte(0), Damage: nbt.short(0), Name: nbt.string('c') }
  ]))
})
nbt.writeUncompressed(tag) // now do something with this nbt buffer...
```

See [index.d.ts](typings/index.d.ts#L69) for methods

## Browser usage

For webpack usage, see an example configuration [here](https://github.com/PrismarineJS/prismarine-web-client/blob/master/webpack.common.js#L28).

For a web bundle with browserify (after you ran `npm install prismarine-nbt` in your project):
```
npx browserify -r prismarine-nbt -r buffer -o pnbt.js
```
```html
<script src="./pnbt.js"></script>
<script>
  const nbt = require('prismarine-nbt')
  const { Buffer } = require('buffer')
  fetch('test.nbt').then(resp => resp.arrayBuffer())
    .then(buf => nbt.parse(Buffer.from(buf))).then(console.log)
</script>
```

Commit message:

Use ProtoDef `skipChecks` flag to allow full NBT array size support (#91)
* feat: use `skipChecks` flag to allow full NBT array size support

NBT arrays are allowed a length up to 32 bits, so skipping checks is necessary to allow full NBT support.

https://minecraft.wiki/w/NBT_format#Binary_format

* feat: add optional `options` to functions

* improve: update type definitions

* chore: use node-protodef dev branch

* fix: `parse` callback type definition

* chore: update docs

* improve: remove unnecessary parameter defaults

* Revert "improve: remove unnecessary parameter defaults"

This reverts commit d1b29fe0de72a9e4134bf661d82d5248ec1d5fe1.

* Revert "chore: update docs"

This reverts commit 522459c5f17196cd4fa9394dd64f196f6c2e04dd.

* Revert "fix: `parse` callback type definition"

This reverts commit c599564e3db04a058f8937e3cd91b797bba6e1e3.

* Revert "feat: add optional `options` to functions"

This reverts commit ad494eab280cd9c8647e411865feff954d70e520.

* Revert "feat: use `skipChecks` flag to allow full NBT array size support"

This reverts commit 6457edb5640fcb7204cae480b3a5cc8b100ce56c.

* feat: setskip checks variable

* fix: properly set variable to prototype

* revert: previous approach types

* improve: setVariable in parse function

* chore: apply lint standard

* improve: simplify variable setting and don't update

* chore: update docs

* Revert "chore: use node-protodef dev branch"

This reverts commit 867b301e39a9662b275d44aa45ee12b0ef11e32a.

* fix: lint

README.md, after:

# Prismarine-NBT
[![NPM version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/prismarine-nbt.svg)](http://npmjs.com/package/prismarine-nbt)
[![Build Status](https://github.com/PrismarineJS/prismarine-nbt/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/PrismarineJS/prismarine-nbt/actions?query=workflow%3A%22CI%22)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-on%20discord-brightgreen.svg)](https://discord.gg/GsEFRM8)
[![Try it on gitpod](https://img.shields.io/badge/try-on%20gitpod-brightgreen.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/PrismarineJS/prismarine-nbt)

Prismarine-NBT is a JavaScript parser and serializer for [NBT](http://wiki.vg/NBT) archives. It supports big, little, and little-varint encoded NBT files.


## Usage

#### as a async promise

```js
const fs = require('fs')
const nbt = require('prismarine-nbt')

async function main(file) {
  const buffer = fs.readFileSync(file)
  const { parsed, type } = await nbt.parse(buffer)
  console.log('JSON serialized', JSON.stringify(parsed, null, 2))
  fs.createWriteStream('bigtest.nbt').write(nbt.writeUncompressed(parsed, type)) // Write it back 
}
main('bigtest.nbt')
```

#### as a callback

```js
var fs = require('fs'),
    nbt = require('prismarine-nbt');

fs.readFile('bigtest.nbt', function(error, data) {
    if (error) throw error;

    nbt.parse(data, function(error, data) {
        console.log(data.value.stringTest.value);
        console.log(data.value['nested compound test'].value);
    });
});
```

If the data is gzipped, it is automatically decompressed, for the buffer see metadata.buffer

## API

### parse(data, [format]): Promise<{ parsed, type, metadata: { size, buffer? } }>
### parse(data, [format,] callback)

Takes an optionally compressed `data` buffer and reads the nbt data.

If the endian `format` is known, it can be specified as 'big', 'little' or 'littleVarint'. If not specified, the library will
try to sequentially load as big, little and little varint until the parse is successful. The deduced type is returned as `type`.

Minecraft Java Edition uses big-endian format, and Bedrock uses little-endian.

### writeUncompressed(value, format='big')

Returns a buffer with a serialized nbt `value`. 

### parseUncompressed(data, format='big', options?= {noArraySizeCheck?: boolean})

Takes a buffer `data` and returns a parsed nbt value.

The `options` parameter is optional. When `noArraySizeCheck` is `true`, an array size check is disabled which allows for parsing of large arrays.

### parseAs(data, type, options?= {noArraySizeCheck?: boolean})

Takes a buffer `data` and returns a parsed nbt value. If the buffer is gzipped, it will unzip the data first.

The `options` parameter is optional. When `noArraySizeCheck` is `true`, an array size check is disabled which allows for parsing of large arrays.


### simplify(nbt)

Returns a simplified nbt representation : keep only the value to remove one level.
This loses the types so you cannot use the resulting representation to write it back to nbt.

### equal(nbt1, nbt2)

Checks whether two NBT objects are equal, returns a boolean.

### protos : { big, little, littleVarint }

Provides compiled protodef instances used to parse and serialize nbt

### proto

Provide the big-endian protodef instance used to parse and serialize nbt.

### protoLE

Provide the little-endian protodef instance used to parse and serialize little endian nbt.

### addTypesToCompiler (type, compiler)
Adds prismarine-nbt types to an ProtoDef compiler instance

### addTypesToInterpreter (type, interperter)
Adds prismarine-nbt types to a ProtoDef interpreter instance

### builder

Provides a way to build complex nbt structures simply:

```js
const nbt = require('prismarine-nbt')
const tag = nbt.comp({
  Air: nbt.short(300),
  Armor: nbt.list(nbt.comp([
    { Count: nbt.byte(0), Damage: nbt.short(0), Name: nbt.string('a') },
    { Count: nbt.byte(0), Damage: nbt.short(0), Name: nbt.string('b') },
    { Count: nbt.byte(0), Damage: nbt.short(0), Name: nbt.string('c') }
  ]))
})
nbt.writeUncompressed(tag) // now do something with this nbt buffer...
```

See [index.d.ts](typings/index.d.ts#L69) for methods

## Browser usage

For webpack usage, see an example configuration [here](https://github.com/PrismarineJS/prismarine-web-client/blob/master/webpack.common.js#L28).

For a web bundle with browserify (after you ran `npm install prismarine-nbt` in your project):
```
npx browserify -r prismarine-nbt -r buffer -o pnbt.js
```
```html
<script src="./pnbt.js"></script>
<script>
  const nbt = require('prismarine-nbt')
  const { Buffer } = require('buffer')
  fetch('test.nbt').then(resp => resp.arrayBuffer())
    .then(buf => nbt.parse(Buffer.from(buf))).then(console.log)
</script>
```
